Data Management Plan for the research project in biological conttoal 
Context of the project: using the EO to conttoal pests.  
Fares Alzahrani
GRAD 521 (DMP 1)

The project is trying to answer the following questions. First, can essential oils be used to repel pests in agricultural settings? The pests that I am working with are a type of snail and a type of insect. Second, which essential oils are the most fatal or lead to the highest rates of mortality? Third, are there any negative impacts on the agricultural crops through the use of the essential oils, such as phytotoxicity?
The data that will be gathered and used will include concentration levels of the essential oils that are used in the study (this should be a small amount of data), the mortality rate of the pests (insect and slug) (this will be a larger amount of data, up to 1TB). Spreadsheets will be used for these types of data. Additionally, the phytotoxicity assessments (visual and technical) (this will be a larger and more complicated set of data, over 1TB) will be used and will require excel spreadsheets and images, to represent the quantifiable data and the visual, qualitative data. Each data component will have to be assessed in its own context, so each will have to be further defined, because for example, the visual is observational. For example, mortality rate will need to be further defined, with timeframes after application, and the phytotoxicity assessment process will have to be broken down and made clear how each, visual and technical, function, what they are looking at, and why. 


Fares Alzahrani 
GRAD 521 (dmp 2)
For my project, the Primary Investigator is responsible ultimately for the data as a whole. They are responsible for making sure that the data is stored appropriately, and that access to the data is given to those who need it. They are also responsible for making sure that the data has backups and is saved in multiple locations, and that there is a system and schedule for backups. In the beginning, the primary investigator works with a vendor or database designer to construct a database that meets the project's needs. There is no data that is particularly sensitive, but it still will need to be secure. A final task of the Primary Investigator is making sure that the data has the appropriate context and key so that it is easy to use and understand for the rest of the team. 
The research assistants, R1 and R2, are responsible for collecting the data and making sure that it is recorded appropriately and uploaded into the database. They are also required to report monthly on the status of the data and what has been uploaded. They also, with the PI, use the data, and keep track of how the data is used. If any data is collected by others, the RI and the R2 vet the data and make sure that it is accurate and timely, and then upload it into the database. 
If someone with data management responsibilities left the project, it would be important that the PI would have access to everything and a good overall understanding of how the data works, is stored, and is backed up. This is why the PI was assigned most of the data management oversight.
